Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an adventure and
sci-fi film called "2001: A Space Odyssey."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the dawn of man, only shrubs and giant
rock formations can be seen for miles over
the desert.
The gushes of winds and birds chirping start
the morning.
The sun fully rises, and there appears apes
hiding behind a shadow of a boulder.
Creatures resembling anteaters live harmoniously
with the apes.
The silence is deafening, and only the hostile
grunts of the apes disrupt it.
Peace, serenity, and boredom radiate from
the environment.
The most exciting thing happening is two apes
picking off bugs from one another.
A feline ambushes an unsuspecting ape, jumping
onto it and latching its sharp teeth into
the flesh.
The rest of the apes howl at the sight of
their comrade getting killed.
Near a water deposit, a group of apes is seen
cleaning themselves and drinking from the
muddy pond.
A scream-off begins as a rival tribe confronts
them.
Their hostility and anger are showing, but
no one makes any violent move.
A few strained throats later, the rival tribe
successfully drives the other apes off, leaving
the pond all to themselves.
The day ends, and the land grows quieter than
before.
The apes are in their caves, waiting for the
sun to fall.
As they open their eyes, something disgruntles
them.
They make their way out to see an unknown
structure.
Their suspiciousness quickly turns into curiosity
as more and more apes try to touch and inspect
the strange structure.
However, nothing came of it.
A lone ape scavenges a pile of bones and grabs
a sturdy piece.
It starts to hammer down the rest of the bones,
discovering the power of tools.
The ape continues to furiously smash the bones
to pieces, practicing as if the bones are
a real creature.
With this newfound knowledge, the ape hunts
an animal and eats it.
The concept of using bones as weapons quickly
spread throughout the ape colony, allowing
for hunting to become a new source of food.
A new day comes, and it starts with an eventful
setting as two tribes of apes are once again
in a conflict.
However, this time, one colony has the upper
hand.
An unlucky ape tries to get near the ape with
a weapon without knowing that it will take
its last step and final cry.
This scares off the rest of the rival apes,
ensuring their spot at the top of the food
chain.
In outer space, a satellite surveys Earth.
A spacecraft appears, and the interior of
it resembles an airplane.
There sits a man named Floyd, a Doctor of
Astronautics, who’s sleeping while the movie
he's watching continues to play.
A woman enters the cabin wearing an all-white
uniform with Grip Shoes, allowing her to stay
on her feet and not float all over the place
because of the zero gravity.
The spacecraft arrives at the space station,
and Floyd walks into the main level.
He talks to the receptionist that knows who
he already is.
Floyd asks for Mr. Miller of Station Security
for their meeting.
Miller conveniently walks in and shakes the
hand of Floyd.
After a bit of small talk, Floyd proceeds
to use a Voice Print Identification machine.
There he states his personal information and
his destination, which is the moon.
The two catch up with one another, but Floyd
interrupts, saying he has to make a phone
call.
He slips a card into a machine and dials a
number.
His daughter appears on the screen.
She asks if Floyd can come to her birthday
tomorrow.
He apologetically says he can't.
They say their goodbyes, and as the screen
turns off, the girl is seen with a huge smile
on her face.
Floyd then reconnects with a good friend named
Elena.
After an exchange of compliments, Elena introduces
Floyd to her colleagues.
He sits down and mingles with the group.
Floyd says that he’ll be going to a place
called Clavius.
Out of curiosity, a man questions him about
the strange things happening there.
However, Floyd portrays that he isn't aware
of anything, but it seems as though he just
isn't allowed to discuss details about it.
The man iterates that they haven't contacted
the station at Clavius for the past ten days.
They discuss a few more strange events about
the place, like a rampant epidemic spreading,
prompting Floyd to leave and go on his way.
While flying to the moon, Floyd takes a nap
in his seat.
The flight stewardess distributes containers
of food that are dispensed through straws
to everyone on the ship.
Everything onboard displays countless interesting
innovations, magnifying the futuristic aspects
that are present at the time.
Finally, they land on the moon.
Distinguished people are all present in a
room waiting for a meeting to start.
Halverson introduces Floyd to the group; he
stands and makes his way to the podium.
In his speech, he addresses the masking of
what's genuinely happening in Clavius.
A cover-up story of an epidemic hides the
truth of the discoveries of the group in Clavius.
This is to keep the secrecy of the extremely
sensitive information.
Floyd's agenda is to gather the information
that he will then report to the National Council.
This will help in formulating a plan on if
and how they shall publicize the news.
After a few questions from the audience, Floyd
steps down the podium, and the meeting advances
with the briefing.
A team, including Floyd and Halverson, are
on a vessel heading to an excavation site.
The group talks about this structure they
found underneath the moon's surface.
It is a structure that produces a strong radio
signal and doesn't seem to be naturally buried,
causing their speculation.
After a few bites of their sandwiches and
a cup of coffee, they reach their destination.
They feel an ominous vibe while walking down
the excavation site, and the heavy tension
weighs them down more than the spacesuits
they wear.
A familiar structure meets the group at the
bottom of the site.
They stand side to side in front of the monolith,
getting ready for their picture to be taken.
Suddenly, they hear a high-pitch ringing noise.
Eighteen months later, a spacecraft floats
through space, embarking on the Jupiter mission.
A man named Dr. Frank Poole jogs along the
floor and the ceiling of a circular room.
He eats his food with the mission commander,
Dr. David Bowman while watching the B.B.C.
Channel.
The show features their team, the crew of
Discovery One.
They're on a half a billion-mile voyage to
Jupiter, with three of the crew members put
in a hibernating state.
In contrast, three other members, David, Frank,
and Hal are awake.
Hal is short for HAL-9000, a supercomputer
that controls the entire system of the spacecraft.
It's able to mimic human functions, forming
some sort of consciousness.
It completes tasks at unimaginable speeds
without any error.
After a while, Hal alerts Frank of the incoming
transmission from his parents.
It's his birthday and a recorded message displays
on the screen.
Frank's parents relay all the greetings from
relatives and friends.
The warm messages from his parents and friends
don't seem to affect Frank in any way.
He shows no signs of interest or gratitude
and gets back to relaxing.
Hal initiates a conversation with David; it
asks him if he can show his drawings of the
ship and the crewmates.
A little into the conversation, Hal questions
David if he has any second thoughts about
the mission.
David asks how it came up with that.
Hal, sounding like it isn't a computer, credits
the question to its doubts.
They talk about the uncertainty and the looming
stories behind the mission.
Hal also mentions the strange structure on
the moon and the unconventional preparations
for the journey.
A fault in a unit in the spacecraft abruptly
interrupts the discussion.
Failure is imminent, and they have 72 hours
to fix it.
David acts quickly and informs mission control
and Frank about the problem.
David prepares for extravehicular activity
and enters the pod that Hal set up for him.
His eyes show determination and focus.
The bay door opens, and he makes his way to
the area of the damaged unit.
He carefully soars through the darkness of
space, replacing the unit successfully.
David returns to the spacecraft and checks
the damaged unit with Frank and Hal.
However, they soon find out that there isn't
anything wrong with it.
Hal sounds puzzled and suggests returning
the supposedly damaged unit for the system
to fail, so they can find out what's wrong
with it.
The two report the happenings to mission control.
Mission control agrees to return the unit
for failure analysis.
However, they also inform the two that Hal
made an error.
As another HAL-9000 on their end computes
a different conclusion.
Sounding apologetic, Hal asks the two if what
happened raises concern.
David replies no but then asks for an explanation
of why Hal and the other HAL-9000 differ in
results.
Without any hesitation, Hal replies that human
error is the only possible cause.
It then assures that the 9000 series computers
possess a perfect record.
Frank is doubtful, but David stops the conversation
before it escalates.
David and Frank check back on the pod.
They enter together, making sure Hal can't
hear them.
They discuss their thoughts about Hal, both
expressing their doubts and worries.
Frank senses something odd about Hal.
But with a level-headed mind, David decides
to carry on with the failure analysis.
Frank points out that if the unit doesn't
fail, something is wrong with Hal.
And if that's the case, then their only choice
will be to cut off Hal from the ship's system.
Not unless Hal does that to them first.
This time around, Frank is the one that will
return the damaged unit to its place.
A few moments pass since Frank set out.
The pod begins to turn slowly, and as Frank
breathes harder and harder.
The pod moves closer and closer, flashing
a red light that indicates that Hal seizes
control of it.
David looks out a window but doesn’t see
a flailing Frank pass through.
His air hose is cut off, meaning he's slowly
suffocating to death as he and the pod get
lost in space.
David is unaware of the situation.
He even asks Hal to prepare a pod to check
on Frank.
David enters the pod, not knowing he might
suffer the same fate.
He moves farther and farther away from the
spacecraft, trying to track Frank's pod using
the radar.
And there in the window, a yellow speck is
seen in the vast darkness.
David approaches to retrieve Frank's body.
His calm manner remains but the frustration,
sadness, and fear are evident in his eyes.
Hal is alone back at the ship.
It uses this opportunity to disable the life
support systems of the crew members killing
the unconscious souls.
No remorse can be seen from the red dot.
Returning from his search, David asks Hal
to open the bay doors.
However, Hal doesn't respond immediately.
After a few moments, it answers, but the tone
of the computerized voice holds a sense of
malice.
Hal says that he can't open the hatch, to
which David responds by asking what the problem
is.
However, deep down, he knows what the problem
is, and so does Hal.
Hal explains that it can't let anyone jeopardize
the mission.
It knows about what he and Frank are planning
to do regardless of not hearing them talk.
Because of this, Hal is left with no choice
but to eliminate them.
Feeling hopeless, David lets a lifeless Frank
drift off into space.
And with nothing left to lose, he tries to
open the emergency airlock.
However, David can't just enter easily without
a helmet.
So he parks precisely where the entrance of
the ship meets the opening of the pod.
He presses three buttons, causing an alarm
to go off that's labeled "Armed."
He ducks down, revealing a caution sign which
reads explosive bolts.
He braces himself and gets flung into the
ship.
While holding his breath, he pulls on a latch
closing the entrance.
David walks through the corridors of the spacecraft,
and Hal asks what he plans to do, but he ignores
it.
He grabs a master key and inserts it into
the logic memory center of Hal.
The pleads of Hal don't reach David at all,
and with a few turns of the key, he finally
opens the hatch.
Hal calls out for David to stop, but no words
will halt him from what he plans to do.
He pulls out the drives in the internal terminal
of Hal's system.
With every screw, Hal's voice grows quieter
and quieter.
It reminisces its memories, acting out a computer's
version of life flashing before its eyes.
David entertains Hal for the last time and
asks him to sing the song Hal mentions was
taught to him by its creator.
Hal obliges, creepily singing as he drifts
to insentience.
A voice startles David.
A video recording plays, and what's seen on
the screen is a familiar sight.
It's Floyd, saying something about what happened
18 months ago.
He announces that the structure buried under
the moon's surface is the first discovery
of intelligent life outside Earth.
The black monolith has no defining physical
characteristic.
However, it emits a strong radio signal to
Jupiter, hence why Discovery One is heading
there.
Rising above the horizon is the planet Jupiter
and the spacecraft closing in on its destination.
A black rectangular figure orbits Jupiter.
It blends in with the darkness of space, making
it seem invisible.
Light reflects upon it, realizing that it's
a replica of the monolith on the moon.
The bay doors of the ship open, and the pod
approaches the gas giant.
Flashes of light pass David as he nears the
surface.
He experiences heavy turbulence, his skin
stretches out, and every organ in his body
displaces itself.
The lights grow brighter, forming mesmerizing
patterns.
It almost seems endless.
David finds himself in random positions throughout
this trip.
His eyes show fear and, at the same time,
excitement for what he's about to discover.
Calm waves of light flowing along with darkness
replace the colorful lights.
Finally, the surface of the planet can be
seen.
David travels the lands, deserts, and oceans
of Jupiter.
His blinking intensifies, and he looks as
if he went to hell and back.
The pod lays in a bedroom filled with classy
furniture and fixtures.
David breathes but is far from being stable.
Meanwhile, someone stands outside in the room
wearing a spacesuit.
The man is David looking much older, and the
pod disappears into thin air.
He walks into a bathroom, where he looks at
himself in the mirror, observing his wrinkly
skin.
He turns to see a man eating.
The man stands up and walks towards the bathroom.
He is David, now even older than before.
David gets back to his dinner, taking a sip
of his drink.
The glass falls due to his clumsiness.
He isn't the man he once was, and as he looks
towards the bed, this becomes even clearer.
There lies David in his death bed, pointing
at the black monolith.
With just a look away, the old, weak, and
fragile man that lies in bed is replaced by
a newborn with a border of light surrounding
him.
David is the baby reborn as
a star.